---
title: "CPS-enabled and knowledge-aided demand response strategy for sustainable manufacturing"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-paper-2
excerpt: "Authors: Lingxiang Yun, Shuaiyin Ma, Lin Li, Yang Liu"
date: 2022-04-01
venue: 'Advanced Engineering Informatics'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1474034622000106'
---

The utilization of advanced industrial informatics, such as industrial internet of things and cyber-physical system (CPS), provides enhanced situation awareness and resource controllability, which are essential for flexible real-time production scheduling and control (SC). Regardless of the belief that applying these advanced technologies under electricity demand response can help alleviate electricity demand–supply mismatches and eventually improve manufacturing sustainability, significant barriers have to be overcome first. Particularly, most existing real-time SC strategies remain limited to short-term scheduling and are unsuitable for finding the optimal schedule under demand response scheme, where a long-term production scheduling is often required to determine the energy consumption shift from peak to off-peak hours. Moreover, SC strategies ensuring the desired production throughput under dynamic electricity pricing and uncertainties in manufacturing environment are largely lacking. In this research, a knowledge-aided real-time demand response strategy for CPS-enabled manufacturing systems is proposed to address the above challenges. A knowledge-aided analytical model is first applied to generate a long-term production schedule to aid the real-time control under demand response. In addition, a real-time optimization model is developed to reduce electricity costs for CPS-enabled manufacturing systems under uncertainties. The effectiveness of the proposed strategy is validated through the case study on a steel powder manufacturing system. The results indicate the exceptional performance of the proposed strategy as compared to other real-time SC strategies, leading to a reduction of electricity cost up to 35.6% without sacrificing the production throughput.